---
title: Introduction to Machine Learning
published: 2025-02-26
description: 'Basic introduction to machine learning on Kaggle'
image: ''
tags: ['Machine Learning', 'Data Science']
category: 'Machine Learning'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---

## How Models Work
A very brief overview of how machine learning models work is that they use patterns in data to make decisions. For example, you want to create a model for a friend that trades stocks. A <b>decision tree</b> is a diagram for showing the potential results of a series of decisions. The process of capturing patterns from training data is called <b>fitting</b> or <b>training</b> the model. The bottom of a decision tree where the prediction is made is called a <b>leaf.</b>

## Pandas
The Pandas library is useful for data processing and manipulation. I have used it for filtering and sorting through data sets before, since it is a common tool used in Data Science and Machine Learning. An essential structure in Pandas is the <b>DataFrame</b> which is used for holding data during a program. 

### Loading Data Using Pandas
```python
import pandas as pd

# Path of the file to read
file_path = '../input/folder/training_data.csv'
# Read file into variable
home_data = pd.read_csv(file_path)
# Print summary of data
home_data.describe()

# List the columns in the dataframe
home_data.columns
# Drop the missing values in a dataset
home_data = home_data.dropna(axis=0)
```

## Building the Model
Dot notation is used for accessing a variable from the dataframe. We are using this notation to select the column that will be used as the <b>prediction target (y).</b> Columns input into the model and later used for predicting are referred to as <b>features (X)</b>. Choosing features will depend on the target and type of model being created.

```python
# The prediction target for a real estate model would be the price of a property
y = home_data.Price

# We can choose "features" by the column name
home_features = ['Rooms', 'Bathroom', 'Landsize', 'Latitude', 'Longitude']
X = home_data[home_features]
```

For the step of building, models are made through definition, fitting, predicting, and evaluating. 

```python
# Define tree model and fitting it with features and target variable
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeRegressor

home_model = DecisionTreeRegressor(random_state = 1)
home_model.fit(X, y)
```

The <em>random_state</em> can be thought of as a seed for a random number generator. Setting this "seed number" can ensure that consistent results are given when the model is run. 

## Model Validation
Let's say you build a model and create predictions based on the model. <b>Model validation</b> is how you would verify whether the model is making predictions accurately. The process of validating models should always include out of sample data. This is to protect against coincidental factors from impacting the model. The example used for this on Kaggle is let's say that by coincidence all the highest priced houses had green doors in your sample. The model will pick up on this and being to price houses with green doors higher in predictions. 

:::Note
When I read that, it occurred to me wouldn't it make sense to cut a part of the training set to use for validation. This is an approach that is commonly done. [See here.](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54126811/order-between-using-validation-training-and-test-sets)
:::

:::Warning
It is a mistake to make predictions using training data and comparing those predictions to target values from the same training data. 
:::

The first metric introduced is <b>mean absolute error (MAE)</b>. Error is calculated as below: 
> error = actual - predicted

For example, if the a house ends up costing 150,000 and the predicted cost for that house was 100,000. The error for that house is 50,000.

Excluding part of the training data before modeling, to use for model validation is called <b>validation data</b>.

```python
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

# Split data into training and validation data. The split is based on the random number generator, with a seed for ensuring consistency when rerunning.
train_X, val_X, train_y, val_y = train_test_split(X, y, random_state = 0)

data_model = DecisionTreeRegressor()
data_model.fit(train_X, train_y)

val_predictions = data_model.predict(val_X)
print(mean_absolute_error(val_y, val_predictions))
```

## Sources
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/dansbecker/model-validation)
[Validation Sets](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54126811/order-between-using-validation-training-and-test-sets)<br>