---
title: SQLZoo Practice
published: 2025-01-06
description: 'Practicing SQL for an exam in February'
image: ''
tags: ["SQLZoo"]
category: 'SQL'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---

## Practicing Basic SQL on SQLZoo

### Problem: Umlaut

When working on the problem titled "Umlaut", we need to create a query for finding all the details of the prize won by someone named "Peter Grünberg". Learned about the concatenation operator. However when searching around I found that it is common to use the CONCAT function to concatenate strings.

#### Concatenation Operator vs. CONCAT

Finding a difference in use cases between these two brought it down to one reason: we had definitive, non-null strings to concatenate. However, when searching, including || there are two additional functions capable of concatenating strings: CONCAT and COALESCE.

#### CONCAT vs. COALESCE

CONCAT is used primarily for handling strings. COALESCE for handling NULL values or providing custom default values.

| Scenario | CONCAT | COALESCE|
|----------|--------|---------|
|Concatenate strings or fields| ✅ | ❌ |
|Replace <code>NULL</code> values with defaults| ❌ | ✅ |
|Combine strings while ignoring <code>NULL</code>| ✅ (default behavior) | ❌ |
|Substitute <code>NULL</code> for dynamic logic| ❌ | ✅ |

``` sql
SELECT *
  FROM nobel
 WHERE winner = 'Peter Gr' || CHR(252) || 'nberg'
```

### Problem: Percentages of Germany

Interestingly, when trying to solve the problem with Postgres I would often get a "integer out of range" error. The error was being produced due to the operation <code>100 * population</code> exceeding the size limit of the <code>INTEGER</code> type.

To get around this, it is recommended to explicitly population to larger numeric types. I implicitly cast it as a float using <code>100.0 * population</code>. Which is not recommended as it is not guaranteed to cast when conducting arithmetic operations with mixed types.

---

## Sources

Source for CONCAT and COALESCE: <https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/combine-rows-into-string-in-sql-server/>

Implicit vs. Explicit conversion: <https://www.slingacademy.com/article/postgresql-implicit-and-explicit-data-type-conversion/?utm_source=chatgpt.com>
