---
title: Pitfalls in Correctness
published: 2025-02-22
description: 'About understanding correctness in your solutions and in problem specification'
image: ''
tags: ['Correctness', 'Problem Solving', 'Algorithms']
category: 'DSA'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---

## Problem Specifications
Another important to problem solving is the articulation and constraints for the problem. What is scope of allowed inputs? What properties should the correct outputs have? 

### Output Requirements
Let's say you are creating an algorithm for finding the route from point A to point B in a map. An example of what a mistake would look like is to specify that our algorithm is going to find the <em>best</em>. But what does best mean? Someone tired after a day of work would say the fastest route, another who drives a big rig would say the route with the least turns, etc. 

### Compound Problem Goals
Adding more goals to a single problem will only compound the complexity. Stick to one goal. 

## Tools for Expressing your Algorithm
Skiena says that an algorithm is an idea. Using the correct medium for conveying your idea is needed. On a scale (in terms of expressiveness) there are: English, pseudocode, and programming language. With English giving the most room for expression but imprecise for programming. When describing an algorithm if the "idea" of it is not understood then the notation is likely too low-level. 

## Demonstrating Incorrectnes
The single best way for proving incorrectness is through counterexample. It can often be difficult to think of counterexamples, starting with extremes or making things equivalent can be a good starting place. 